CONTRIBUTING: how to build a package (#330)
elastic/package-registry: CONTRIBUTING.md

### Package

A package contains the dashboards, visualisations, and configurations to monitor the logs and metrics of a particular technology or group of related services, such as “MySQL”, or “System”.

The package consists of:

* Name
* Zero or more dashboards and visualisations and Canvas workpads
* Zero or more ML job definitions
* Zero or more dataset templates

The package is versioned.

### Integration

An integration is a specific type of a _package_ defining datasets used to observe the same product (logs and metrics).

### Dataset Template

A dataset template is part of a package and contains all the assets which are needed to create a dataset. Example for assets are: ingest pipeline, agent config template, ES index template, ...

Dataset templates are inside the package directory under `dataset`.

The dataset template consists of:

* An alias templates (or the fields.yml to create it)
* Zero or more ingest pipelines
* An Elastic Agent config template

### Migration from Beats

> A defined importing procedure used to transform both, Filebeat and Metricbeat modules, related to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A defined importing procedure used to transform both Filebeat and Metricbeat modules, related to
```

## Create a new integration

This section describes steps required to build a new integration. If you plan to prepare the integration
with a product unsupported by [Beats](https://github.com/elastic/beats), feel free to skip the section about importing
existing modules.

### Import from existing modules

The import procedure heavily uses on the _import-beats_ script. If you are interested how does it work internally,
feel free to review the script's [README](https://github.com/elastic/package-registry/blob/master/dev/import-beats/README.md).

1. Focus on the particular product (e.g. MySQL, ActiveMQ) you would like to integrate with.
2. Prepare the developer environment:
    1. Clone/refresh the following repositories:
        * https://github.com/elastic/beats
        * https://github.com/elastic/ecs
        * https://github.com/elastic/eui
        * https://github.com/elastic/kibana

       Make sure you don't have any manual changes applied as they will reflect on the integration.
    2. Clone/refresh the Elastic Package Registry (EPR) to always use the latest version of the script:
        * https://github.com/elastic/package-registry

>     3. Make sure you've the `mage` tool installed.

Reviewer: nit: how about adding the command line for this?

Author: Fixed. Added a one-liner for mage.

3. Boot up required dependencies:
    1. Elasticseach instance:
        * Kibana's dependency
    2. Kibana instance:
        * used to migrate dashboards, if not available, you can skip the generation (`SKIP_KIBANA=true`)

    _Hint_. There is dockerized environment in beats (`cd testing/environments`). Boot it up with the following command:
    `docker-compose -f snapshot.yml -f local.yml up --force-recreate elasticsearch kibana`.

> 4. Create a new branch for the integration in the EPR project (diverge from master).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a new branch for the integration in package-registry repo (diverge from master).
```

        "download": "/epr/mysql/mysql-0.0.1.tar.gz",
        "icons": [
          {
            "src": "/package/mysql/0.0.1/img/logo_mysql.svg",
            "title": "logo mysql",
            "size": "32x32",
            "type": "image/svg+xml"
          }
        ],
        "name": "mysql",
        "path": "/package/mysql/0.0.1",
        "title": "MySQL",
        "type": "integration",
        "version": "0.0.1"
      }
    ]
    ```

4. Start Elasticsearch instance:

    ```bash
   $ yarn es snapshot -E xpack.security.authc.api_key.enabled=true 
   ```

5. Start Kibana with enabled Ingest Manager:

    ```bash
   $ yarn start --xpack.ingestManager.enabled=true --xpack.ingestManager.epm.enabled=true --xpack.ingestManager.fleet.enabled=true --xpack.ingestManager.epm.registryUrl=http://localhost:8080/
    ```

6. Build agent code:
    ```bash
   $ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/elastic/beats/x-pack/elastic-agent
   $ PLATFORMS=darwin mage package
    ```

   Unpack the distribution you'd like to use (e.g. tar.gz):
   ```bash
   $ cd build/distributions/
   $ tar xzf elastic-agent-8.0.0-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
   $ cd elastic-agent-8.0.0-darwin-x86_64/

>    ```

Reviewer: I think this is fine, wondering if we have a snapshot image being produced already? cc @ph @ruflin

Reviewer 2: I will take a look and get back to you @exekias

The package consists of:

* Name
* Zero or more dashboards and visualisations and Canvas workpads
* Zero or more ML job definitions
* Zero or more dataset templates

The package is versioned.

### Integration

An integration is a specific type of a _package_ defining datasets used to observe the same product (logs and metrics).

### Dataset Template

A dataset template is part of a package and contains all the assets which are needed to create a dataset. Example for assets are: ingest pipeline, agent config template, ES index template, ...

Dataset templates are inside the package directory under `dataset`.

The dataset template consists of:

* An alias templates (or the fields.yml to create it)
* Zero or more ingest pipelines
* An Elastic Agent config template

### Migration from Beats

A defined importing procedure used to transform both Filebeat and Metricbeat modules, related to
the same observed product, into a single integration. The integration contains extracted dataset configuration of beat
modules, hence no modules are required to exist anymore.

## Package structure

### Elements

> Link: https://github.com/elastic/package-registry/blob/master/ASSETS.md

Reviewer 3: I will have to update that with the most recent details one day ;-)

### Reference packages

The following packages can be considered as reference points for all integrations.

#### Integration: reference

Link: https://github.com/elastic/package-registry/tree/master/dev/packages/example/reference-1.0.0

The directory contains mandatory manifest files defining the integration and its datasets. All manifests have fields
annotated with comments to better understand their goals.

> _Keep in mind that this package doesn't contain all file resources (images, screenshots, icons) referenced in manifests.

Reviewer 3: Ups, we should add those. I plan to have validation for these in the future.

2. Add screenshot if missing.

    The Kibana Integration Manager shows screenshots related with the integration. Screenshots present Kibana
    dashboards visualizing the metric/log data.

    The `import-beats` script finds references to screenshots mentioned in `_meta/docs.asciidoc` and copies image files
    from the Beats directories:
    * `metricbeat/docs/images`
    * `filebeat/docs/images`

3. Improve/correct spelling product names.

    The correct spelling of product names simply makes better impression. The `import-beats` scripts uses the `fields.yml`
    file as the source of the correct spelling (`title` property), e.g. Mysql - MySQL, Nginx - NGINX, Aws - AWS.

    Keep in mind that this step requires reimporting package contents.

4. Write README template file for the integration.

    The README template is used to render the final README file including exported fields. The template should be placed
    in the `dev/beats/import-beats-resources/docs/<integration-name>/docs/README.md`.

    Review the MySQL docs template to see how to use template functions (e.g. `{{fields "dataset-name"}}`)

5. Review fields file and exported fields in docs.

>     The fields files (`package-fields.yml`, `fields.yml` and `ecs.yml`) in the package were created from original

Reviewer 3: Could you add an additional note here that the sum of all the fields.yml for a dataset should only contain the fields that are really used by the dataset? For example not just have all the ecs fields that exist?

Author: Right, done.

    or copy them once managed to run whole setup with real agent.

## Testing and validation

### Run the whole setup

1. Build docker image with EPR and run it:

    ```bash
   $ docker build --rm -t integrations_registry:latest .
   $ docker run -i -t -p 8080:8080 $(docker images -q integrations_registry:latest) 
   ```

3. Verify that your integration is available (in the right version), e.g. MySQL: http://localhost:8080/search?package=mysql

    ```json
    [
      {
        "description": "MySQL Integration",
        "download": "/epr/mysql/mysql-0.0.1.tar.gz",
        "icons": [
          {
            "src": "/package/mysql/0.0.1/img/logo_mysql.svg",
            "title": "logo mysql",
            "size": "32x32",
            "type": "image/svg+xml"
          }
        ],
        "name": "mysql",
        "path": "/package/mysql/0.0.1",
        "title": "MySQL",
        "type": "integration",
        "version": "0.0.1"
      }
    ]
    ```

4. Start Elasticsearch instance:

    ```bash
   $ yarn es snapshot -E xpack.security.authc.api_key.enabled=true 
   ```

5. Start Kibana with enabled Ingest Manager:

    ```bash

>    $ yarn start --xpack.ingestManager.enabled=true --xpack.ingestManager.epm.enabled=true --xpack.ingestManager.fleet.enabled=true --xpack.ingestManager.epm.registryUrl=http://localhost:8080/

Reviewer 3: Most users new to KB will forget to run `yarn kbn bootstrap` ;-)

Author: Thanks, added.
